# [Refutations](/refutations/) > Paul's Grasp of Hebrew and the Old Law

**Author: Fasih Rana, Date: 07-Mar-2026**

Paul's lack of knowledge or his lack of focus on the importance of law has been the subject of many a scholar. Perhaps the most influential of these is Heikki Räisänen's  work<sup>[\[1\]](#1)</sup> in which he states _“Paul, in his practice, was selective about the law. He regarded it as an adiaphoron, and he treated it as such, too. In Jewish eyes, such an attitude amounted, of course, to a rejection of the Law. The evidence is definitely against the view that Paul scrupulously observed the whole Torah throughout his life”_

Schoeps<sup>[\[2\]](#2)</sup>, a Jewish scholar, argued that Paul fundamentally misunderstood Second Temple Judaism's relationship between covenant and Law. Another scholar, Hyam Maccoby<sup>[\[3\]](#3)</sup>, argued that Paul was not from the tribe of Benjamin as he claimed arguing that he was a Gentile convert from paganism to Judaism having "at best a dilettante's acquaintance with rabbinic Judaism." He further says that Paul "knew very little Hebrew".

Watson<sup>[\[4\]](#4)</sup> argues a slightly different angle that Paul had a sociological issue with the law because the it was strict and unattractive to the Gentiles, so Paul decided to abandon some of the difficult commandments and started building theological arguments in a way that appealed to the Gentiles.

One of the well known instance of Paul not understanding Hebrew is [Galatians 3:16](https://biblehub.com/galatians/3-16.htm) _"He saith not, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one"_. The problem was first highlighted by Jerome<sup>[\[5\]](#5)</sup> where the word used in the Old Testament was **zera (זֶרַע)** whereby the word itself does not indicate whether it is in singular or plural form much like the word _sheep_ in the English language. The context surrounding the word should give us an indication of what the usage of the word is in [Genesis 22](https://biblehub.com/genesis/22.htm). The specific word Paul uses in Greek is **σπερμα (sperma)**, which in Greek does have a plural form **σπέρματα (spermata)**. So this argument by Paul is either misleading on purpose or he genuinely does not understand the Hebrew plurals. Jerome in 4th century CE is arguing _"... the remark here of Paul appears to be a trick of argument, or a quibble more worthy of a trifling Jewish Rabbi, than of a grave reasoner or an inspired man."_ As according to Chandler, _"Jerome affirms that the apostle made use of a false argument, which, although it might appear well enough to the stupid Galatians, would not be approved by wise or learned men."_<sup>[\[6\]](#6)</sup>